Healthcheck endpoint (#24817)
backstage/backstage: docs/backend-system/core-services/root-health.md

---
id: root-health
title: Root Health Service
sidebar_label: Health
description: Documentation for the Health service
---

The Root Health service provides some health check endpoints for the backend. By default, the `rootHttpRouter` exposes a `/.backstage/health/v1/readiness` and `/.backstage/health/v1/liveness` endpoints, which return a JSON object with the status of the backend services according the implementation of the Root Health Service.

## Configuring the service

> The following example is how you can override the health service implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how you can override the root health service implementation.
```

```ts
import { RootHealthService, coreServices } from '@backstage/backend-plugin-api';

> import { WinstonLogger } from '@backstage/backend-app-api';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

not used

const backend = createBackend();

class MyRootHealthService implements RootHealthService {

>   async getLiveness(): Promise<{ status: number; payload?: any }> {

Reviewer: the payloads could have been `JsonValue`
